# Team Meeting 4

[Team 19 Members](#team-19-members)

[Meeting Info](#meeting-info)

[Attendance](#attendance)

[Agenda](#agenda)

[Meeting Notes](#meeting-notes)

[Previous Meeting](https://github.com/pennerj6/260-project/blob/main/admin/meetings/012325-project_proposal.md)

## **Team 19 Members**
<ul>

<!-- List of Names to copy/paste
Sahil Dadhwal
Jordan Penner
Manami Nakagawa
David Chu
Haochen Dong 
-->

##### <li> *Sahil Dadhwal* </li>
##### <li> *Jordan Penner* </li>
##### <li> *Manami Nakagawa* </li>
##### <li> *David Chu* </li>
##### <li> *Haochen Dong* </li>

</ul>

## **Meeting Info**
#### Meeting Specs: 
<ul>
  <li>Tuesday January 28, 2025</li>
  <ul>
    <li>Duration: 30 minutes</li>
        <ol>1:30pm to 2:00pm<ol>
  </ul>
</ul>

#### Meeting Location: 
<ul>
  <li>Sproul Hall</li>
</ul>

#### Meeting Type: 
<ul>
  <li>Meeting to review proposal feedback & discuss project presentation/video. </li>
</ul>	

## **Attendance**
##### <li> *5 out of 5* </li>
- [x] Sahil Dadhwal
- [x] Jordan Penner
- [x] Manami Nakagawa
- [x] David Chu
- [x] Haochen Dong


## **Agenda**
- [x] Review Project Proposal feedback from TA.
- [x] Reflect TA's feedback for our RQ's in our Presentation.
- [x] Work on completing the slides (including intro/conclusion).
    
## **Meeting Notes**
<ul>
<b>Updates</b>
<ul>
    <ul>
        <li>TO BE UPDATED DURING MEETING.</li>
    </ul>
    
</ul>
<b>Tasks to be completed</b>
<ul>
    <ul>
        <li>Attend Office Hours for feedback.</li>
        <li>Individially Record Presentation.</li>
        <li>Edit video and post as Unlisted Youtube Video and submit link</li>
    </ul>
</ul>